Q25. Use of 􀃕nal keyword in Java?
Ans.
Final methods – These methods cannot be overridden by any other method.
Final variable – Constants, the value of these variable can’t be changed, its 􀃕xed.
Final class – Such classes cannot be inherited by other classes. These type of classes will be used when application required security

Q26. What are Packages in Java?
Ans. A Package can be de􀃕ned as a grouping of related types (classes, interfaces, enumerations and annotations).

Q41. What is the di􀃡erence between Iterator and Enumeration?
Ans.
1) Iterator allows to remove elements from the underlying collection during the iteration using its remove() method. We cannot add/remove elements
from a collection when using enumerator.
2) Iterator has improved method names.
Enumeration.hasMoreElement() -> Iterator.hasNext()
Enumeration.nextElement() -> Iterator.next().
Update

Q42. What are the restrictions that are applied to the Java static methods?
Ans. Two main restrictions are applied to the static methods.
The static method can not use non-static data member or call the non-static method directly.
this and super cannot be used in static context as they are non-static.
Q43. What are the advantages of passing this into a method instead of the current class object itself?
Ans. As we know, that this refers to the current class object, therefore, it must be similar to the current class object. However, there can be two main
advantages of passing this into a method instead of the current class object.
“this” is a 􀃕nal variable. Therefore, this cannot be assigned to any new value whereas the current class object might not be 􀃕nal and can be
changed.
“this” can be used in the synchronized block.

Q9. What is the di􀃡erence between double and 􀃖oat variables in Java?
Ans: In java, 􀃖oat takes 4 bytes in memory while Double takes 8 bytes in memory. Float is single precision 􀃖oating point decimal number while Double
is double precision decimal number.
Q10. What is Final Keyword in Java? Give an example.
Ans: In java, a constant is declared using the keyword Final. Value can be assigned only once and after assignment, value of a constant can’t be
changed.
In below example, a constant with the name const_val is declared and assigned avalue:
Private Final int const_val=100
When a method is declared as 􀃕nal,it can NOT be overridden by the subclasses.This method are faster than any other method,because they are
resolved at complied time.
When a class is declares as 􀃕nal,it cannot be subclassed. Example String,Integer and other wrapper classes.

Q11. What is ternary operator? Give an example.
Ans: Ternary operator , also called conditional operator is used to decide which value to assign to a variable based on a Boolean value evaluation. It’s
denoted as ?
In the below example, if rank is 1, status is assigned a value of “Done” else “Pending”.
public class conditionTest { public static void main(String args[]) { String status; int rank = 3; status = (rank == 1) ? “Done” : “Pending”;
System.out.println(status); }}
Q12: How can you generate random numbers in Java?
Ans:
Using Math.random() you can generate random numbers in the range greater than or equal to 0.1 and less than 1.0
Using Random class in package java.util

Q45. Can we call the constructor of a class more than once for an object?
Ans: Constructor is called automatically when we create an object using new keyword. It’s called only once for an object at the time of object creation
and hence, we can’t invoke the constructor again for an object after its creation.

Q51. Give an example of use of Pointers in Java class.
Ans: There are no pointers in Java. So we can’t use concept of pointers in Java.


Q74. How are destructors de􀃕ned in Java?
Ans: In Java, there are no destructors de􀃕ned in the class as there is no need to do so. Java has its own garbage collection mechanism which does the
job automatically by destroying the objects when no longer referenced.

Q78. Is it correct to say that due to garbage collection feature in Java, a java program never goes out of
memory?
Ans: Even though automatic garbage collection is provided by Java, it doesn’t ensure that a Java program will not go out of memory as there is a
possibility that creation of Java objects is being done at a faster pace compared to garbage collection resulting in 􀃕lling of all the available memory
resources. So, garbage collection helps in reducing the chances of a program going out of memory but it doesn’t ensure that.

Q80. I want to re-reach and use an object once it has been garbage collected. How it’s possible?
Ans: Once an object has been destroyed by garbage collector, it no longer exists on the heap and it can’t be accessed again. There is no way to
reference it again.

Q89. I have multiple constructors de􀃕ned in a class. Is it possible to call a constructor from another
constructor’s body?
Ans: If a class has multiple constructors, it’s possible to call one constructor from the body of another one using this().

Q97. Can we cast any other type to Boolean Type with type casting?
Ans: No, we can neither cast any other primitive type to Boolean data type nor can cast Boolean data type to any other primitive data type.

Q100. What’s the order of call of constructors in inheritiance?
Ans: In case of inheritance, when a new object of a derived class is created, 􀃕rst the constructor of the super class is invoked and then the constructor
of the derived class is invoked.